+++
date = 2017-12-15T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.

title = "Sociotechnical Investigations of Scientific Software, Collaboration, & Infrastructure"
time_start = 2017-12-15T00:00:00
time_end = 2017-12-15T00:00:00
abstract = "Software is an integral element of scientific research — key to the production, processing, and analysis of data as well as the facilitation of collaborative work at a distance. In this seminar I will discuss my qualitative research studying collaborative scientific software and infrastructure production. Sharing selections from my longitudinal ethnographic research, I will discuss the efforts of a group of cosmologists studying the Epoch of Reionization who are developing novel data analysis software while working as part of two multinational radio telescope projects. I will explain how these cosmologists use visualizations to simultaneously analyze data and test the software they are producing. I will illustrate how in this cosmology group the ongoing process of developing and testing data analysis software is a significant portion of the work of actually accomplishing scientific analyses. These findings portray how collaborative scientific software development and knowledge discovery are creative and human-centered work that is also exacting and methodical. I will conclude the talk by discussing my current work at Lawrence Berkeley Lab engaging in user-centered design & ethnographic research to as part of two data science tool development projects "
abstract_short = ""
event = "Invited talk hosted by Frédéric Suter at IN2P3’s Computing Centre (or CC-IN2P3)"
event_url = ""
location = "Lyon, France"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = ["deep-learning"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++
