+++
title = "From The Matrix to a Model of Coordinated Action (MoCA): A Conceptual Framework of and for CSCW"
date = 2015-03-14T00:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Charlotte P. Lee, Drew Paine"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *CSCW '15 Proceedings of the 18th ACM Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work & Social Computing*, ACM."
publication_short = "In *CSCW 2015*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "The CSCW community is reliant upon technology-centric models of groupware and collaboration that frame how we examine and design for cooperative work. This paper both reviews the CSCW literature to examine existing models of collaborative work and proposes a new, expanded conceptual model: the Model of Coordinated Action (MoCA). MoCA is a broader framework for describing complex collaborative situations and environments including, but not limited to, collaborations that have diverse, high-turnover memberships or emerging practices. We introduce MoCA's seven dimensions of coordinative action and illustrate their connection to past and current CSCW research. Finally, we discuss some ramifications of MoCA for our understanding of CSCW as a sociotechnical design space."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = ["deep-learning"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://doi.org/10.1145/2675133.2675161"
url_preprint = "https://depts.washington.edu/csclab/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/CSCW2015_MoCA_preprint.pdf"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = "http://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.1340077"
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

The initial conceptualization of the [Model of Coordinated Action](https://depts.washington.edu/csclab/projects/moca/).
